README.md, before:

# react-date-range
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-date-range.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-date-range)
![](https://img.shields.io/bithound/dependencies/github/adphorus/react-date-range.svg?style=flat-square)

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/react-date-range.svg?style=flat-square)]()
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/localeval.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-date-range)

> ⚠️ Warning: the current branch represents the new pre-release version. [Legacy version](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/tree/v0) deprecated.

A date library agnostic React component for choosing dates and date ranges. Uses [date-fns](http://date-fns.org/) for date operations.

### Why should you use `react-date-range`?

- Stateless date operations
- Highly configurable
- Multiple range selection
- Based on native js dates
- Drag n Drop selection
- Keyboard friendly

**Live Demo :** [http://adphorus.github.io/react-date-range](http://adphorus.github.io/react-date-range)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/master/demo/assets/ss.png)


## Getting Started
### Installation

```
yarn add react-date-range@next
```

If you don't use yarn
```
$ npm install --save react-date-range@next
```

## Usage

You need to import skeleton and theme styles first.

```javascript
import 'react-date-range/dist/styles.css'; // main style file
import 'react-date-range/dist/theme/default.css'; // theme css file
```

### `DatePicker`
```javascript
import { Calendar } from 'react-date-range';

class MyComponent extends Component {
	handleSelect(date){
		console.log(date); // native Date object
	}
	render(){
		return (
			<Calendar
				date={new Date()}
				onChange={this.handleSelect}
			/>
		)
	}
}

```

### `DateRangePicker / DateRange`
```javascript
import { DateRangePicker } from 'react-date-range';

class MyComponent extends Component {
	handleSelect(ranges){
		console.log(ranges);
		// {
		// 	selection: {
		// 		startDate: [native Date Object],
		// 		endDate: [native Date Object],
		// 	}
		// }
	}
	render(){
		const selectionRange = {
			startDate: new Date(),
			endDate: new Date(),
			key: 'selection',
		}
		return (
			<DateRangePicker
				ranges={[selectionRange]}
				onChange={this.handleSelect}
			/>
		)
	}
}

```

### Options

Property                             | type      | Default Value    | Desctiption
-------------------------------------|-----------|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
locale                               | Object    | enUS from locale | you can view full list from [here](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/tree/next/src/locale/index.js). Locales directly exported from [`date-fns/locales`](https://date-fns.org/v2.0.0-alpha.7/docs/I18n#supported-languages).
className                            | String    |                  | wrapper classname
months                               | Number    | 1                | rendered month count
showSelectionPreview                 | Boolean   | true             | show preview on focused/hovered dates
rangeColors                          | String[]  |                  | defines color for selection preview.
shownDate                            | Date      |                  | initial focus date
minDate                              | Date      |                  | defines minimum date. Disabled earlier dates
maxDate                              | Date      |                  | defines maximum date. Disabled later dates
direction                            | String    | 'vertical'       | direction of calendar months. can be `vertical` or `horizontal`
scroll                       				 | Object    | { enabled: false }| infinite scroll behaviour configuration. Check out [Infinite Scroll](#infinite-scrolled-mode) section 
showMonthArrow                       | Boolean   | true             | show/hide month arrow button
navigatorRenderer                    | Func      |                  | renderer for focused date navigation area. fn(currentFocusedDate: Date, changeShownDate: func, props: object)
ranges                               | *Object[] | []               | Defines ranges. array of range object
moveRangeOnFirstSelection(DateRange) | Boolean   | false            | move range on startDate selection. Otherwise endDate will replace with startDate.
onChange(Calendar)                   | Func      |                  | callback function for date changes. fn(date: Date)
onChange(DateRange)                  | Func      |                  | callback function for range changes. fn(changes). changes contains changed ranges with new `startDate`/`endDate` properties.
color(Calendar)                      | String    | `#3d91ff`        | defines color for selected date in Calendar
date(Calendar)                       | Date      |                  | date value for Calendar
showDateDisplay(DateRange)           | Boolean   | true             | show/hide selection display row. Uses `dateDisplayFormat` for formatter
onShownDateChange(DateRange,Calendar)| Function  |                  | Callback function that is called when the shown date changes
initialFocusedRange(DateRange)       | Object    |                  | Initial value for focused range. See `focusedRange` for usage.
focusedRange(DateRange)              | Object    |                  | It defines which range and step are focused. Common initial value is `[0, 0]`; first value is index of ranges, second one is which step on date range(startDate or endDate).
onRangeFocusChange(DateRange)        | Object    |                  | Callback function for focus changes
preview(DateRange)                   | Object    |              | displays a preview range and overwrite DateRange's default preview. Expected shape: `{ startDate: Date, endDate: Date, color: String }`
showPreview(DateRange)               | bool      | true             | visibility of preview
onPreviewChange(DateRange)           | Object    |                  | Callback function for preview changes
dateDisplayFormat(DateRange)         | String    | `MMM D, YYYY`    | selected range preview formatter. Check out [date-fns's format option](https://date-fns.org/v2.0.0-alpha.7/docs/format)
staticRanges(`DefinedRange`, `DateRangePicker`) | Array   | [default preDefined ranges](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/blob/master/src/defaultRanges.js)             | -
inputRanges(`DefinedRange`, `DateRangePicker`) | Array   | [default input ranges](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/blob/master/src/defaultRanges.js)             | -


 *shape of range:
 ```js
	{
		startDate: PropTypes.object,
		endDate: PropTypes.object,
		color: PropTypes.string,
		key: PropTypes.string,
		autoFocus: PropTypes.bool,
		disabled: PropTypes.bool,
		showDateDisplay: PropTypes.bool,
	}
```

#### Infinite Scrolled Mode

To enable infinite scroll set `scroll={{enabled: true}}` basically. Infinite scroll feature is affected by `direction`(rendering direction for months) and `months`(for rendered months count) props directly.
If you prefer, you can overwrite calendar sizes with `calendarWidth`/`calendarHeight` or each month's height/withs with `monthWidth`/`monthHeight`/`longMonthHeight` at `scroll` prop.

```js
	// shape of scroll prop
  scroll: {
    enabled: PropTypes.bool, 
    monthHeight: PropTypes.number,
    longMonthHeight: PropTypes.number, // some months has 1 more row than others
    monthWidth: PropTypes.number, // just used when direction="horizontal"
    calendarWidth: PropTypes.number, // defaults monthWidth * months
    calendarHeight: PropTypes.number, // defaults monthHeight * months
  }),
```


TODOs

- Make mobile friendly (integrate tap and swipe actions)
- Add complex booking customization example with exposed dayRenderer prop
- Add tests
- Improve documentation

Commit message:

adding a prop to allow disabling the month and year selectors

README.md, after:

# react-date-range
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-date-range.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-date-range)
![](https://img.shields.io/bithound/dependencies/github/adphorus/react-date-range.svg?style=flat-square)

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/react-date-range.svg?style=flat-square)]()
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/localeval.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-date-range)

> ⚠️ Warning: the current branch represents the new pre-release version. [Legacy version](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/tree/v0) deprecated.

A date library agnostic React component for choosing dates and date ranges. Uses [date-fns](http://date-fns.org/) for date operations.

### Why should you use `react-date-range`?

- Stateless date operations
- Highly configurable
- Multiple range selection
- Based on native js dates
- Drag n Drop selection
- Keyboard friendly

**Live Demo :** [http://adphorus.github.io/react-date-range](http://adphorus.github.io/react-date-range)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/master/demo/assets/ss.png)


## Getting Started
### Installation

```
yarn add react-date-range@next
```

If you don't use yarn
```
$ npm install --save react-date-range@next
```

## Usage

You need to import skeleton and theme styles first.

```javascript
import 'react-date-range/dist/styles.css'; // main style file
import 'react-date-range/dist/theme/default.css'; // theme css file
```

### `DatePicker`
```javascript
import { Calendar } from 'react-date-range';

class MyComponent extends Component {
	handleSelect(date){
		console.log(date); // native Date object
	}
	render(){
		return (
			<Calendar
				date={new Date()}
				onChange={this.handleSelect}
			/>
		)
	}
}

```

### `DateRangePicker / DateRange`
```javascript
import { DateRangePicker } from 'react-date-range';

class MyComponent extends Component {
	handleSelect(ranges){
		console.log(ranges);
		// {
		// 	selection: {
		// 		startDate: [native Date Object],
		// 		endDate: [native Date Object],
		// 	}
		// }
	}
	render(){
		const selectionRange = {
			startDate: new Date(),
			endDate: new Date(),
			key: 'selection',
		}
		return (
			<DateRangePicker
				ranges={[selectionRange]}
				onChange={this.handleSelect}
			/>
		)
	}
}

```

### Options

Property                             | type      | Default Value    | Desctiption
-------------------------------------|-----------|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
locale                               | Object    | enUS from locale | you can view full list from [here](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/tree/next/src/locale/index.js). Locales directly exported from [`date-fns/locales`](https://date-fns.org/v2.0.0-alpha.7/docs/I18n#supported-languages).
className                            | String    |                  | wrapper classname
months                               | Number    | 1                | rendered month count
showSelectionPreview                 | Boolean   | true             | show preview on focused/hovered dates
showMonthAndYearPickers              | Boolean   | true             | show select tags for month and year on calendar top, if false it will just display the month and year
rangeColors                          | String[]  |                  | defines color for selection preview.
shownDate                            | Date      |                  | initial focus date
minDate                              | Date      |                  | defines minimum date. Disabled earlier dates
maxDate                              | Date      |                  | defines maximum date. Disabled later dates
direction                            | String    | 'vertical'       | direction of calendar months. can be `vertical` or `horizontal`
scroll                       				 | Object    | { enabled: false }| infinite scroll behaviour configuration. Check out [Infinite Scroll](#infinite-scrolled-mode) section
showMonthArrow                       | Boolean   | true             | show/hide month arrow button
navigatorRenderer                    | Func      |                  | renderer for focused date navigation area. fn(currentFocusedDate: Date, changeShownDate: func, props: object)
ranges                               | *Object[] | []               | Defines ranges. array of range object
moveRangeOnFirstSelection(DateRange) | Boolean   | false            | move range on startDate selection. Otherwise endDate will replace with startDate.
onChange(Calendar)                   | Func      |                  | callback function for date changes. fn(date: Date)
onChange(DateRange)                  | Func      |                  | callback function for range changes. fn(changes). changes contains changed ranges with new `startDate`/`endDate` properties.
color(Calendar)                      | String    | `#3d91ff`        | defines color for selected date in Calendar
date(Calendar)                       | Date      |                  | date value for Calendar
showDateDisplay(DateRange)           | Boolean   | true             | show/hide selection display row. Uses `dateDisplayFormat` for formatter
onShownDateChange(DateRange,Calendar)| Function  |                  | Callback function that is called when the shown date changes
initialFocusedRange(DateRange)       | Object    |                  | Initial value for focused range. See `focusedRange` for usage.
focusedRange(DateRange)              | Object    |                  | It defines which range and step are focused. Common initial value is `[0, 0]`; first value is index of ranges, second one is which step on date range(startDate or endDate).
onRangeFocusChange(DateRange)        | Object    |                  | Callback function for focus changes
preview(DateRange)                   | Object    |              | displays a preview range and overwrite DateRange's default preview. Expected shape: `{ startDate: Date, endDate: Date, color: String }`
showPreview(DateRange)               | bool      | true             | visibility of preview
onPreviewChange(DateRange)           | Object    |                  | Callback function for preview changes
dateDisplayFormat(DateRange)         | String    | `MMM D, YYYY`    | selected range preview formatter. Check out [date-fns's format option](https://date-fns.org/v2.0.0-alpha.7/docs/format)
staticRanges(`DefinedRange`, `DateRangePicker`) | Array   | [default preDefined ranges](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/blob/master/src/defaultRanges.js)             | -
inputRanges(`DefinedRange`, `DateRangePicker`) | Array   | [default input ranges](https://github.com/Adphorus/react-date-range/blob/master/src/defaultRanges.js)             | -


 *shape of range:
 ```js
	{
		startDate: PropTypes.object,
		endDate: PropTypes.object,
		color: PropTypes.string,
		key: PropTypes.string,
		autoFocus: PropTypes.bool,
		disabled: PropTypes.bool,
		showDateDisplay: PropTypes.bool,
	}
```

#### Infinite Scrolled Mode

To enable infinite scroll set `scroll={{enabled: true}}` basically. Infinite scroll feature is affected by `direction`(rendering direction for months) and `months`(for rendered months count) props directly.
If you prefer, you can overwrite calendar sizes with `calendarWidth`/`calendarHeight` or each month's height/withs with `monthWidth`/`monthHeight`/`longMonthHeight` at `scroll` prop.

```js
	// shape of scroll prop
  scroll: {
    enabled: PropTypes.bool,
    monthHeight: PropTypes.number,
    longMonthHeight: PropTypes.number, // some months has 1 more row than others
    monthWidth: PropTypes.number, // just used when direction="horizontal"
    calendarWidth: PropTypes.number, // defaults monthWidth * months
    calendarHeight: PropTypes.number, // defaults monthHeight * months
  }),
```


TODOs

- Make mobile friendly (integrate tap and swipe actions)
- Add complex booking customization example with exposed dayRenderer prop
- Add tests
- Improve documentation
